Proofreading MO Guide (#11605)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/prepare_model/Getting_performance_numbers.md

# Getting Performance Numbers {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Getting_Performance_Numbers}

> When evaluating performance of a model with the OpenVINO Runtime, it is required to measure the proper set of operations. To do so, consider the tips below: 

Reviewer: This guide introduces things to notice and how to use the Benchmark.app to get performance numbers. In the last section, it also explains how the performance numbers are reflected through internal inference performance counters and execution graphs.

> - Avoid including one-time costs, like model loading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tip 1: Measure the Proper Set of Operations

When evaluating the performance of a model with OpenVINO Runtime, it is required to measure the proper set of operations. To do so, note the following tips:
- Avoid including one-time costs like model loading.
```

> When evaluating performance of model with the OpenVINO Runtime, it is required to measure the proper set of operations. To do so, consider the tips below: 

Author: ```suggestion
When evaluating performance of a model with the OpenVINO Runtime, it is required to measure the proper set of operations. To do so, consider the tips below: 
```

> - Track operations which occur outside of the OpenVINO Runtime (like video decoding) separately. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Track operations that occur outside OpenVINO Runtime (like video decoding) separately. 
```

> - Track separately operations which occurred outside of the OpenVINO Runtime (like video decoding). 

Author: ```suggestion
- Track operations which occur outside of the OpenVINO Runtime (like video decoding) separately. 
```

> **NOTE**: Some image pre-processing can be baked into the IR and accelerated accordingly. For more information, refer to the [Embedding the Preprocessing ](Additional_Optimizations.md) guide. Additional information is also present in the [Runtime Optimizations of the Preprocessing](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_common) guide.

> ## Getting Credible Performance Numbers 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tip 2: Try to Get Credible Data
```

> > **NOTE**: Some image pre-processing can be baked into the IR and accelerated accordingly. For more information, refer to the [Embedding the Preprocessing guide](Additional_Optimizations.md). Additional information are also present in the [Runtime Optimizations of the Preprocessing guide](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_common).

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Some image pre-processing can be baked into the IR and accelerated accordingly. For more information, refer to the [Embedding the Preprocessing ](Additional_Optimizations.md) guide. Additional information is also present in the [Runtime Optimizations of the Preprocessing](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_common) guide.
```
IMHO it is better to leave out the guide/page/article words from linking syntax, as it highlights the name/topic of a particular document. Additional words in titles might result in some confusion.

Performance conclusions should be build upon reproducible data. As for the performance measurements, they should be done with a large number of invocations of the same routine. Since the first iteration is almost always significantly slower than the subsequent ones, an aggregated value can be used for the execution time for final projections:

-	If the warm-up run does not help or execution time still varies, you can try running a large number of iterations and then average or find a mean of the results.

> -	For time values that range too much, consider geomean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	If the time values range too much, consider geomean.
```

> -  Be aware of the throttling and other power oddities. A device can exist in one of several different power states. When optimizing your model consider fixing the device frequency for better performance data reproducibility. However, the end-to-end (application) benchmarking should also be performed under real operational conditions.

Author: ```suggestion
-  Be aware of the throttling and other power oddities. A device can exist in one of several different power states. When optimizing your model, consider fixing the device frequency for better performance data reproducibility. However, the end-to-end (application) benchmarking should also be performed under real operational conditions.
```

> ## Measuring Reference Performance Numbers with OpenVINO benchmark_app 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using OpenVINO benchmark_app to Measure Reference Performance Numbers 
```

> To get performance numbers, use the dedicated [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) sample as it is the best solution to produce the performance reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get performance numbers, use the dedicated [OpenVINO Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) sample, which is the most-recommended solution to produce performance reference.
```

> It includes a lot of device-specific knobs, but the primary usage is as simple as: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It includes a lot of device-specific knobs, but the primary usage is as simple as in the following command to measure the performance of the model on GPU: 
```

Reviewer: I cannot edit the lines below. Can we remove "to measure the performance of the model on the GPU." and apply the same formatting for "to execute on the CPU instead"? It's better to place the aim above the command.

```
to execute on the CPU instead.

> Each of the [OpenVINO supported devices](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/Supported_Devices.md) offers performance settings that contain command-line equivalents in the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of the [OpenVINO supported devices](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/Supported_Devices.md) offers performance settings that contain command-line equivalents in the [Benchmark app](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md).
```

> While these settings provide really low-level control and allow leveraging the optimal model performance on the _specific_ device, it is suggested to always start the performance evaluation with the [OpenVINO High-Level Performance Hints](../../OV_Runtime_UG/performance_hints.md) first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While these settings provide really low-level control and allow leveraging the optimal model performance on the _specific_ device, it is recommended to always start the performance evaluation with the [OpenVINO High-Level Performance Hints](../../OV_Runtime_UG/performance_hints.md) first:
```

 - benchmark_app **-hint tput** -d 'device' -m 'path to your model'
 - benchmark_app **-hint latency** -d 'device' -m 'path to your model'

> ## Comparing Performance with Native/Framework Code 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Notes for Comparing Performance with Native/Framework Code 
```

When comparing the OpenVINO Runtime performance with the framework or another reference code, make sure that both versions are as similar as possible:

> -	Wrap the inference execution exactly (for examples, refer to the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	Wrap the exact inference execution (refer to the [Benchmark app](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) for examples).
```

> -	Wrap exactly the inference execution (for examples, refer to the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md)).

Author: ```suggestion
-	Wrap the inference execution exactly (for examples, refer to the [Benchmark App](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md)).
```

-	Do not include model loading time.
-	Ensure the inputs are identical for the OpenVINO Runtime and the framework. For example, watch out for random values that can be used to populate the inputs.
-	In situations when any user-side pre-processing should be tracked separately, consider [Image Pre-processing and Conversion](../../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md).

> -  When applicable, leverage the [Dynamic Shapes support](../../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  When applicable, leverage the [Dynamic Shapes support](../../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md).
```

-	If possible, demand the same accuracy. For example, TensorFlow allows *`FP16`* execution, so when comparing to that, make sure to test the OpenVINO Runtime with the *`FP16`* as well.

> ## Internal Inference Performance Counters and Execution Graphs <a name="performance-counters"></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data from Internal Inference Performance Counters and Execution Graphs <a name="performance-counters"></a>
```

> Deeper, more detailed insights into inference performance breakdown can be achieved with device-specific performance counters and/or execution graphs.

Author: ```suggestion
More detailed insights into inference performance breakdown can be achieved with device-specific performance counters and/or execution graphs.
```
I'd say this much emphasis is enough for a word "insight", which already suggests discernment.

> Both [C++](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) and [Python](../../../tools/benchmark_tool/README.md) versions of the *`benchmark_app`* support a *`-pc`* command-line parameter that outputs internal execution breakdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both [C++](../../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) and [Python](../../../tools/benchmark_tool/README.md) versions of `benchmark_app` support a `-pc` command-line parameter to output internal execution breakdown.
```

> For example, below is the part of performance counters for quantized [TensorFlow* implementation of ResNet-50](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/open_model_zoo/tree/master/models/public/resnet-50-tf) model inference on [CPU Plugin](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/CPU.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For example, below is the part of performance counters for quantized [TensorFlow implementation of ResNet-50](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/open_model_zoo/tree/master/models/public/resnet-50-tf) model inference on [CPU Plugin](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/CPU.md).
```

> Keep in mind that since the device is CPU, the layers wall clock *`realTime`* and the *`cpu`* time are the same. Information about layer precision is also stored in the performance counters. 

Author: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that since the device is CPU, the *`realTime`* wall clock and the *`cpu`* time layers are the same. Information about layer precision is also stored in the performance counters. 
```

> For example, below is the part of performance counters for quantized [TensorFlow implementation of ResNet-50](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/open_model_zoo/tree/master/models/public/resnet-50-tf) model inference on [CPU Plugin](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/CPU.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the table shown below is the part of performance counters for quantized [TensorFlow implementation of ResNet-50](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/open_model_zoo/tree/master/models/public/resnet-50-tf) model inference on [CPU Plugin](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/CPU.md).
```

> Keep in mind that since the device is CPU, the *`realTime`* wall clock and the *`cpu`* time layers are the same. Information about layer precision is also stored in the performance counters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that since the device is CPU, the `realTime` wall clock and the `cpu` time layers are the same. Information about layer precision is also stored in the performance counters. 
```

| resnet\_model/add\_5/fq\_input\_1                         | NOT\_RUN   | FakeQuantize | undef                | 0             | 0            |

>    The *`exeStatus`* column of the table includes possible values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The *`exeStatus`* column of the table includes the following possible values:
```

>    - The *`EXECUTED`* - layer was executed by standalone primitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `EXECUTED`: the layer was executed by standalone primitive.
```

>    - The *`NOT_RUN`* - layer was not executed by standalone primitive or was fused with another operation and executed in another layer primitive.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `NOT_RUN`: the layer was not executed by standalone primitive, or was fused with another operation and executed in another layer primitive.  
```

>    The *`execType`* column of the table includes inference primitives with specific suffixes. The layers have the following marks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `execType` column of the table includes inference primitives with specific suffixes. The layers could have the following marks:
```

>    * Suffix *`I8`* - layers that had 8-bit data type input and were computed in 8-bit precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The `I8` suffix is for layers that had 8-bit data type input and were computed in 8-bit precision.
```

>    * Suffix *`FP32`* - layers computed in 32-bit precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The `FP32` suffix is for layers computed in 32-bit precision.
```

>    All *`Convolution`* layers are executed in *`int8`* precision. Rest layers are fused into Convolutions using post operations optimization technique (for more details, see the [Internal CPU Plugin Optimizations](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/CPU.md)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   All `Convolution` layers are executed in `int8` precision. The rest of the layers are fused into Convolutions using post-operation optimization, as described in [CPU Device](../../OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/CPU.md). 
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure why CPU page is referenced here. I didn't find anything related on that page. We need check this in future. @kblaszczak-intel can you check a little bit to see how it's connected?

>    This contains name (as seen in IR) and type of the layer and execution statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This contains layer names (as seen in OpenVINO IR), type of the layer, and execution statistics.
```

Reviewer: And what "this" represents here is also very unclear.

> Both *`benchmark_app`* versions also support *`exec_graph_path`* command-line option. It orders the OpenVINO to output the same per-layer execution statistics, but in the form of the plugin-specific [Netron-viewable](https://netron.app/) graph to the specified file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both `benchmark_app` versions also support the `exec_graph_path` command-line option. It requires OpenVINO to output the same execution statistics per layer , but in the form of plugin-specific [Netron-viewable](https://netron.app/) graph to the specified file.
```

> Keep in mind that on some devices, the execution graphs/counters may be pretty intrusive overhead-wise. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that on some devices, the execution graphs/counters may have high overhead. 
```

> Be aware, especially when performance-debugging the [latency case](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_latency.md), that the counters do not reflect the time spent in the plugin/device/driver/etc queues. If the sum of the counters is too different from the latency of an inference request, consider testing with less inference requests. For example, running single [OpenVINO stream](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_tput.md) with multiple requests would produce nearly identical counters as running single inference request, yet the actual latency can be quite different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Especially when performance-debugging the [latency](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_latency.md), note that the counters do not reflect the time spent in the `plugin/device/driver/etc` queues. If the sum of the counters is too different from the latency of an inference request, consider testing with less inference requests. For example, running single [OpenVINO stream](../../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_tput.md) with multiple requests would produce nearly identical counters as running a single inference request, while the actual latency can be quite different.
```

> Finally, the performance statistics with both performance counters and execution graphs is averaged, so such a data for the [dynamically-shaped inputs](../../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md) should be measured carefully. Preferably by isolating the specific shape and executing multiple times in a loop, to gather the reliable data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, the performance statistics with both performance counters and execution graphs are averaged, so such data for the [inputs of dynamic shapes](../../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md) should be measured carefully, preferably by isolating the specific shape and executing multiple times in a loop, to gather the reliable data.
```

> In general, OpenVINO and its individual plugins are heavily instrumented with Intel® instrumentation and tracing technology (ITT). This presents an another option, which is to compile the OpenVINO from the source code with the ITT enabled and using tools like [Intel® VTune™ Profiler](https://software.intel.com/en-us/vtune) to get detailed inference performance breakdown and additional insights in the application-level performance on the timeline view.

Author: ```suggestion
In general, OpenVINO and its individual plugins are heavily instrumented with Intel® instrumentation and tracing technology (ITT). Another option is to compile the OpenVINO from the source code with the ITT enabled and using tools like [Intel® VTune™ Profiler](https://software.intel.com/en-us/vtune) to get detailed inference performance breakdown and additional insights in the application-level performance on the timeline view.
```

> In general, OpenVINO and its individual plugins are heavily instrumented with Intel® instrumentation and tracing technology (ITT). Another option is to compile the OpenVINO from the source code with the ITT enabled and using tools like [Intel® VTune™ Profiler](https://software.intel.com/en-us/vtune) to get detailed inference performance breakdown and additional insights in the application-level performance on the timeline view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Additional Options to Get Performance Insights

In general, OpenVINO and its individual plugins are heavily instrumented with Intel® Instrumentation and Tracing Technology (ITT). Therefore, you can also compile OpenVINO from the source code with ITT enabled and use tools like [Intel® VTune™ Profiler](https://software.intel.com/en-us/vtune) to get detailed inference performance breakdown and additional insights in the application-level performance on the timeline view.
```

>    The `exeStatus` column of the table includes possible values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `exeStatus` column of the table includes the following possible values:
```

>    - The `EXECUTED` - layer was executed by standalone primitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `EXECUTED`: the layer was executed by standalone primitive.
```

>    - The `NOT_RUN` - layer was not executed by standalone primitive or was fused with another operation and executed in another layer primitive.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `NOT_RUN`: the layer was not executed by standalone primitive or was fused with another operation and executed in another layer primitive.  
```

   
   The `execType` column of the table includes inference primitives with specific suffixes. The layers have the following marks:

>    * Suffix `I8` - layers that had 8-bit data type input and were computed in 8-bit precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Suffix `I8` for layers that had 8-bit data type input and were computed in 8-bit precision.
```

>    * Suffix `FP32` - layers computed in 32-bit precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Suffix `FP32` for layers computed in 32-bit precision.
```
